.TH x2vnc 1
.SH NAME
x2vnc \- a dual-screen hack

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B x2vnc
.I <options>
.I <host>:<display#>
.br
.B x2vnc
.I <options>
.I -listen
.I [<display#>]
.br
[
.B \-display
.I display
]
.br
[
.B -version
]
.br
[
.B -shared
]
.br
[
.B -north
] [
.B -south
] [
.B -east
] [
.B -west
]
.br
[
.B -hotkey
.I key
]
.br
[
.B -passwdfile
.I passwd-file
]
.br
[
.B -resurface
]
.br
[
.B -edgewidth
.I width
]
.br
[
.B -desktop
.I desktop-number
]
.br
[
.B -timeout
.I seconds
]
.br
[
.B -wheelhack
]
.br
[
.B -nowheel
]
.br
[
.B -reversewheel
]
.br
[
.B -scrolllines
.I lines
]
.br
[
.B -navhack
]
.br
[
.B -mac
]
.br
[
.B -trimsel
]
.br
[
.B -noblank
]
.br
[
.B -lockdelay
.I seconds
]
.br
[
.B -debug
]
.br
[
.B -accel
.I multiplier
]
.br
[
.B -noreconnect
]
.br
[
.B -tunnel
]
.br
[
.B -via
.I host
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I x2vnc
will let you use two screens on two different computers as if they were
connected to the same computer. The computer with the 'main' keyboard must
be running X-window, and the second computer should have a VNC server
running which will update the contents on the actual screen. This means
\fIXvnc\fR is not suitable, but \fIWinVNC\fR is.

In listen mode (
.B -listen
option specified )
.I x2vnc
will wait for a connection from a VNC server on ports 5400 and 5500 (plus
the optional
.I display#
value) instead of connecting to a specified VNC server.

For up-to-date information on x2vnc, see the x2vnc home page:
.B http://fredrik.hubbe.net/x2vnc.html

.TP
\fB\-display\fR \fIdisplay\fR
The X windows display to connect from.
.TP
\fB\-shared\fR
Allow multiple connections to the same VNC server.
.TP
\fB\-north\fR, \fB\-south\fR, \fB\-east\fR, \fB\-west\fR,
Determine which edge leads to the other screen. 
.TP
\fB\-passwdfile\fR \fIpassword-file\fR
With this option you can start x2vnc without entering a password. The file is
created by \fBvncpasswd\fR which comes with the X-windows VNC software. 
If the file does not exist, \fIx2vnc\fR will ask for a password and
create the file.
.TP
\fB\-resurface\fR
This option will cause the trigger window to re-surface automatically if it is
covered up by another window. 
.TP
\fB\-hotkey\fR \fIkey\fR
This option allows you to select which key to use to warp the pointer
to and from second computer. The default is "Control-F12", any
combination of modifiers can be used, such as "shift-alt-meta-ctrl-F1"
(or s-a-m-c-F1).
.TP
\fB\-edgewidth\fR \fIpixels\fR
This is a workaround for some X servers which do not allow the mouse to
go all the way to the edge of the screen. By setting this to 2 or greater, the
mouse will be able to reach the x2vnc window and thus warp to the
windows machine. The default value is 1. If you set this value to 0,
no border will be generated, which means you will have to use hotkeys
to switch to the oher screen.
.TP
\fB\-desktop\fR \fIdesktop-number\fR
With this option, you can make x2vnc non-sticky. This may not work
with all window-managers. Note that the first desktop is usually
0 (zero). If you want x2vnc to appear on the last (rightmost) desktop,
use -1.  This option was especially created with the sawfish edgeflipping
in mind, normally you would use "-west -desktop 0" or "-east -destkop -1"
with Sawfish to allow edgeflipping to work normally.
.TP
\fB\-timeout\fR \fIseconds\fR
This options tells x2vnc how long to wait before warping the cursor back
to the X screen if there is no activity. The reason for this is that
some screen savers, such as xscreensaver, cannot activate while x2vnc is
in control of the cursor. The default value is 590 seconds, which is
equivalent to 9 minutes and 50 seconds. Using a value of 0 will disable
timeouts completely.
.TP
\fB\-nowheel\fR
This option does nothing and is left for backwards compatibility only.
.TP
\fB\-wheelhack\fR
This will make x2vnc tranlate all mouse wheel events into arrow up/down
events. Only use this if your VNC server doesn't understand mouse wheel
events.
.TP
\fB\-reversewheel\fR
Invert the up/down direction of the mouse wheel emulation.
This option only works if -wheelhack is used.
.TP
\fB\-scrolllines\fR \fIlines\fR
When using mouse wheel emulation, this selects how many up/down
events will be sent for each tick of the mouse wheel.
.TP
\fB\-navhack\fR
This will map button 6 & 7 to Alt+Left/Right, which will allow the
navigation buttons on some mice to behave more like they do in windows.
.TP
\fB\-mac\fR
Macintosh specific mode, maps second mouse button to control-mouseclick.
.TP
\fB\-trimsel\fR
If the X selection looks like a URL, trim leading and trailing spaces.
This can be useful for pasting URLs into a browser.
.TP
\fB\-noblank\fR
Prevent screen blanking on the remote desktop while you are working
on the local desktop. Requires the MIT-SCREEN-SAVER or XIDLE extension
to work properly. If neither of these extensions are present, the
remote desktop will always be kept from blanking.
.TP
\fB\-lockdelay\fR \fIseconds\fR
This is only meaningful when using the -noblank option. When this
option is present. With this option, x2vnc will not attempt to
wake up the remote screen if you have been idle for more than
the specified amount of time. This is useful if you need a password
to unlock the remote screen and would rather leave it blanked until
you need it.
.TP
\fB\-debug\fR
This option will make x2vnc print out information about events it
sends and receives to stderr for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB\-accel\fR \fImultiplier\fR
This option allows you to control the speed of the mouse on the
remote screen. 2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
Default is 1.0. Note that this is multiplied with a number which
x2vnc calculates based on screen sizes and other factors.
.TP
\fB\-noreconnect\fR
This option prevents x2vnc from automatically reconnecting if the
connection is closed.
.TP
\fB\-tunnel\fR
This option makes x2vnc start an SSH tunnel to the machine being
controlled by x2vnc. The SSH command used can be changed by setting
the X2VNC_SSH_CMD environment variable. The default is:
.br
\fBssh -A -X -f -L "$LOCALPORT:$REMOTEHOST:$REMOTEPORT" \\
.br
"$GATEWAYHOST" 'ssh-add;sleep 60'\fR
.TP
\fB\-via\fR \fIhost\fR
This is similar to -tunnel, but tunnels through a host different than
the machine being controlled by x2vnc.


.SH EXAMPLES
Most common usage:
.br
\fBx2vnc -passwdfile $HOME/.vncpasswd -resurface host:0\fR

To make x2vnc start (and re-start) automatically, add the following to
your your X startup file (usually .xinitrc):
.br
\fB
while :;
.br
do
  x2vnc -passwd $HOME/.vncpasswd -resurface host:0
.br
  sleep 2
.br
done
\fR

.SH AUTHOR
Fredrik Hübinette, hubbe@hubbe.net
